updating esc faq (#12850)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/esc/faq.md

  - /docs/pulumi-cloud/esc/faq
---

## Why did Pulumi launch ESC?

We launched Pulumi ESC in response to customer feedback about their difficulties in managing config and secrets, causing sprawl and duplications across stacks. Pulumi ESC brings the same Pulumi IaC-like software engineering approach to secrets and configuration, allowing [hierarchical](/docs/esc/#configuration-as-code) configurations that eliminate copy/paste. It can be used for all applications and infrastructure - with or without Pulumi IaC.

## What is the pricing of Pulumi ESC?

See our [pricing page](https://www.pulumi.com/pricing/) for details.

## What counts as a secret towards pricing?

Secrets include [static secrets](/docs/esc/get-started/store-and-retrieve-secrets/), [dynamic login credentials](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/) and [dynamic secrets](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/).

> In other words, when using Pulumi ESC's Document Editor, each definition of fn::secret:: and fn::open::* (except [Pulumi-stacks provider](/docs/esc/integrations/infrastructure/pulumi-iac/pulumi-stacks/)) is counted as a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, when using Pulumi ESC's document editor, each definition of `fn::secret` and `fn::open::*` (except with the [pulumi-stacks provider](/docs/esc/integrations/infrastructure/pulumi-iac/pulumi-stacks/)) is counted as a secret.
```

> Only the secrets from the latest environment revision are counted towards your bill.

Reviewer: Super clear, thanks!

  - /docs/pulumi-cloud/esc/faq
---

## Why did Pulumi launch ESC?

> We launched Pulumi ESC in response to customer feedback about their difficulties in managing config and secrets causing sprawl and duplications across stacks. Pulumi ESC brings the same software engineering approach to secrets and configuration, allowing [hierarchical](/docs/esc/#configuration-as-code) configurations that can be used across stacks. just like Pulumi IaC. It can be used for all applications and infrastructure - with or without Pulumi IaC.

Reviewer 2: > We launched Pulumi ESC in response to customer feedback about their difficulties in managing config and secrets causing sprawl and duplications across stacks.

Add a comma before causing.

> We launched Pulumi ESC in response to customer feedback about their difficulties in managing config and secrets, causing sprawl and duplications across stacks.

-----

> Pulumi ESC brings the same software engineering approach to secrets and configuration, allowing [hierarchical](/docs/esc/#configuration-as-code) configurations that can be used across stacks. just like Pulumi IaC.

This is garbled.

Author: Updated

## What is the pricing of Pulumi ESC?

See our [pricing page](https://www.pulumi.com/pricing/) for details.

## What counts as a secret towards pricing?

> Secret includes both [static secrets](/docs/esc/get-started/store-and-retrieve-secrets/), [dynamic login credentials](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/) and [dynamic secrets](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only Pulumi ESC-managed secrets count towards pricing. This includes [static secrets](/docs/esc/get-started/store-and-retrieve-secrets/), [dynamic login credentials](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/) and [dynamic secrets](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/).
```

In other words,

- When using the Pulumi ESC Document Editor, each definition of fn::secret:* and fn::open::* (except Pulumi-stacks provider) is counted as a secret.

> - When using the Pulumi ESC Table Editor, each secret and provider config type (except Pulumi-stacks) is counted as a secret.

Author: Updated.

> The number of secrets only from the latest environment revision is counted towards your billing.

Reviewer 3: Would reword as "Only the secrets from the latest environment revision are counted towards your billing."

## What is the roadmap for Pulumi ESC?

Check out our [public roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/pulumi/projects/44/) page.

If you are interested in a particular feature, we encourage you to create a [feature request](https://github.com/pulumi/esc/issues/new/choose) or upvote [existing open requests](https://github.com/pulumi/esc/issues).

## Can I Self-host Pulumi ESC?

> Yes. [Contact sales](/contact/?form=sales) us to get a demo or trial self-hosted Pulumi ESC.

Reviewer 3: is the `us` in this line supposed to be here?

Author: I'll update
